# How to access Nextcloud on TITCO's server nagratal

## Contents
- [General information](#general-information)
- [First time setup](#first-time-setup)
- [Uploading](#uploading)

## General information
We use [Nextcloud](https://nextcloud.com/), hosted on our server `nagratal` in Bengaluru, to upload data for our projects. Nextcloud is "the most popular self-hosted collaboration solution". In our setup the connection to Nextcloud has three layers of security:

1. Connections are restricted to a so called Virtual Private Network (VPN)
2. Login requires username and password
3. Login also requires a one time password generated by a separate authentication app on your smartphone 

## First time setup
Before you can start to upload data you first need to contact the core team so that an administrator can create user profiles for you and send you the required configuration file, user name, and password. The configuration file and username will be sent to your email from `admin@titco.org`. Please check your spam folder if you cannot find the email in your inbox and add this email ID to your safe senders list (for example by marking the email as "Not spam"). The password will be sent over Slack in the `teambengaltiger` workspace. You then need to do the following:

1. Download the file called `<your username>.conf` from the email to your computer
2. Download [Wireguard](https://www.wireguard.com/install/)
3. Install Wireguard
4. Open Wireguard
5. Click `Add tunnel`
6. Click `Import tunnel(s) from file`
7. Select the configuration file named `<your username>.conf`, which you downloaded in step 1
8. Click Activate
9. Browse to [nagratal.vpn.titco.org/nextcloud](https://nagratal.vpn.titco.org/nextcloud)
10. Login using the login details provided.
11. Configure an OTP app following the instructions in the [Nextcloud documentation to set up 2 factor authentication](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/14/user_manual/user_2fa.html)
12. Change your password

## Uploading
If you are going to upload data to Nextcloud on nagratal, [follow the instructions here](upload-data-nextcloud.md).

